# MERN Weather App 

Author: Gvidas B

This is a weather app created with:
- Mongo DB for saving user actions;
- Express as a back-end framework;
- React as a front-end library (teplate generated with "create-react-app");
- Node.js as a JavaScript runtime.

Addionally:
- Axios is used for sending: 
    get requests to the Foreca API; 
    get and post requests to the back-end API;
- Jest/React Testing Library is used to perform unit tests in the development enviroment;
- Concurrently is used to launch front-end and back-end files simultaneously in the development environment;
- Body-Parser is used to get the data from the body of front-end requests. 

### !!! IMPORTANT !!!

- Frontend could be run in the "/client/" directory with the following command: "npm start".
- Backend could be run in the root directory with the following command: "npm run server".
- Full app (both client and server sides) could be run in the root directory with the following command: "npm run dev".
- Mongo DB link should be added to the root env variable as "mongoURI".
- Foreca API key should be added to the "/client/" env variable as "REACT_APP_KEY".
- Unit tests could be run in the "/client/" directory with the following command: "npm test".

### Front-End

All of the front-end related code is placed in the "/client/" folder. It is primarily coded with React Js, SASS and HTML.

Foreca Weather API is used to get the weather and location data.

## React Components

Front-end is initialized by rendering the "App.js" file in the "index.js" file both of which are placed in "/client/src/" folder.

All of the components that are linked to primary "App.js" file are placed in "/client/src/components/" folder.

## Styling

All of the styling code is contained within the "index.css" file located in the "/client/src/" folder, which is generated by compiling the SASS "index.scss" file place in the same directory.

## API Calls

GET requests to the Foreca API in order to receive the weather data and POST requests to the back-end API in order to post the user data in Mango DB are coded in the "apirequests.js" and "backendrequests.js" files respectively, both of which located in "/client/src/auxiliary/".

## Unit Tests

Unit tests covering all React App components are included in the "App.test.js" file located in "/client/src/".

### Back-End

Back-end is initialzed from "server.js" file placed in the root folder.

## Routing

Routing code is contained within the "apiroutes.js" file located in the "/routes/" folder.

Routing starts at ".../api/" URL as it is imported so to the "server.js" file.

## Models

Two Mongo DB models are created for query and weather data respectively. Code could be found in the "models.js" file placed in the root folder.

Model for queries contains of two keys: query and date.

Model for weather data contains of these keys: date, location, temperature, windspeed, description.

## Requests

GET requests to ".../api/queries" result in JSON response containing all of the Mongo DB records for queries submitted by app users.

GET requests to ".../api/weather" result in JSON response containing all of the Mongo DB records for weather data sent to users.

POST requests to ".../api/queries" result in JSON response containing the Mongo DB record for that particular POST. 

GET requests to ".../api/weather" result in JSON response containing the Mongo DB record for that particular POST. 

POST requests are sent to the back-end automatically after user submits a querry and receives the current weather data (code placed in the "backendrequests.js" file located in "/client/src/auxiliary/").





